README.md, before:

# Multipass - Terminal for AI

⚠️ **SECURITY WARNING**: This application has **NO AUTHENTICATION** and provides **FULL TERMINAL ACCESS** to your system. Only run this locally or behind a secure VPN/Tailscale connection. **NEVER** expose this to the public internet.

A flexible terminal-based interface for working with any command-line AI assistant (Claude, OpenAI CLI, or custom LLMs). Multipass provides isolated workspaces called "AI Offices" with multiple "cubicles" for experimenting with AI-assisted development.

## Features

- **LLM Agnostic**: Works with any terminal-based AI assistant
- **AI Office**: Create isolated workspaces with multiple cubicles for each project
- **Project Management**: Organize different projects with their own terminal sessions
- **Remote Sessions**: Access your AI sessions from anywhere via web browser
- **Session Persistence**: Terminal sessions persist across connections
- **Quick Commands**: Customizable buttons for common commands
- **Multi-Terminal View**: Work with multiple AI sessions simultaneously

## Configuration

### Configuring Your AI Assistant

Edit `src/utils/constants.js` and find the `LLM_CONFIG` section to configure your AI assistant:

```javascript
LLM_CONFIG: {
  default: 'custom',  // Change this to match your AI assistant key below
  llms: {
    custom: {
      name: 'Your AI Assistant',     // Display name in the UI
      command: 'your-ai-command',    // Terminal command to launch your AI
      sessionPrefix: 'ai-',          // Prefix for session names
      exitSequence: '\x03',          // Key sequence to exit (e.g., '\x03' = Ctrl+C)
      exitDelay: 50                  // Delay in ms after sending exit sequence
    },
    // Example configurations included:
    // - claude: Uses 'claude' command, requires Ctrl+C twice to exit
    // - openai: Uses 'openai' command
    // - ollama: Uses 'ollama run llama2' command
  }
}
```

#### Adding Your Own AI Assistant

1. Add a new entry in the `llms` object
2. Set `command` to whatever terminal command launches your AI
3. Set `exitSequence` based on how your AI exits:
   - `'\x03'` = Ctrl+C (most common)
   - `'\x03\x03'` = Ctrl+C twice (for Claude)
   - `'\x04'` = Ctrl+D
   - `'exit\n'` = types "exit" and Enter
4. Change `default` to your AI's key name

### Customizing AI Assistant & Quick Command Buttons

The buttons that appear in the terminal interface are fully customizable. You can edit them in two ways:

1. **Through the UI**: Click the settings icon (⚙️) and look for "AI Assistant & Quick Command Buttons"
2. **Edit the config file**: Edit `config/buttons.config.js` to customize buttons directly

```javascript
module.exports = {
  // AI Assistant buttons
  ai: {
    start: {
      label: 'AI Assistant',        // Button text
      mobileLabel: '🤖 AI',        // Mobile button text
      className: 'bg-blue-600',     // Tailwind CSS classes
      title: 'Start AI Assistant'   // Tooltip
    },
    exit: {
      label: 'Exit AI',
      mobileLabel: '🛑 Exit',
      className: 'bg-red-600',
      title: 'Exit AI Assistant'
    }
  },
  
  // Quick command buttons
  quickCommands: [
    {
      label: 'git status',
      command: 'git status\n',      // Command to send to terminal
      className: 'bg-gray-600',
      title: 'Show git status'
    },
    // Add your own commands here...
  ]
}
```

#### Button Configuration Options

- **label**: Text displayed on the button
- **command**: The exact command sent to the terminal (include `\n` for Enter)
- **className**: Tailwind CSS classes for styling
- **title**: Tooltip text shown on hover
- **mobileLabel**: Alternative text for mobile view (optional)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- tmux (required for session persistence)
- git (required for AI Office functionality)
- Unix-like operating system (Linux, macOS, WSL on Windows)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/SvetimFM/multipass-ai-terminal.git
   cd multipass-ai-terminal
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Copy the environment example and configure:
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   ```

4. Edit `.env` to set your preferences:
   ```bash
   PORT=3000                    # Server port
   HOST=127.0.0.1              # Use 127.0.0.1 for local only
   SHELL=/bin/bash             # Your preferred shell
   DEFAULT_WORKSPACE=$HOME/projects  # Where to store projects
   ```

5. Start the server:
   ```bash
   npm start     # Production mode
   # or
   npm run dev   # Development mode with hot reload
   ```

6. Open http://localhost:3000 in your browser

## Usage

### Projects
- Click "Add Project Folder" to add a new project
- Each project can have its own AI Office with multiple cubicles

### AI Office
- Create isolated workspaces for AI experimentation
- Each cubicle is an independent copy of your project
- Changes in cubicles don't affect the main project
- Sync cubicles with parent project when needed

### Sessions
- Create new terminal sessions for any project
- Sessions persist even if you close the browser
- Access sessions from multiple devices

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with these variables:

```bash
# Server Configuration
PORT=3000                    # Port to run the server on
HOST=127.0.0.1              # Host to bind to (127.0.0.1 for local only)
SHELL=/bin/bash             # Shell to use for terminal sessions

# Workspace Configuration
DEFAULT_WORKSPACE=$HOME/projects  # Default directory for new projects

# Optional: AI Assistant Configuration
DEFAULT_LLM=claude          # Default LLM to use (claude, openai, etc.)

# Session Configuration (optional)
SESSION_TIMEOUT=86400       # Session timeout in seconds (default: 24 hours)
MAX_SESSIONS=50            # Maximum concurrent sessions
```

## Security Considerations

### ⚠️ Critical Security Information

1. **No Authentication**: This application provides unrestricted terminal access to anyone who can reach the web interface
2. **Full System Access**: Users have the same permissions as the process running the server
3. **Session Persistence**: Terminal sessions remain active even after disconnection

### Recommended Deployment Options

#### Option 1: Local Only (Recommended)
```bash
# In your .env file
HOST=127.0.0.1  # Only accessible from localhost
PORT=3000
```

#### Option 2: Tailscale (Secure Remote Access)
1. Install Tailscale: https://tailscale.com/download
2. Set up your Tailscale network
3. Configure Multipass to listen on your Tailscale IP:
   ```bash
   # In your .env file
   HOST=0.0.0.0  # Listen on all interfaces
   PORT=3000
   ```
4. Access via your Tailscale network: `http://your-machine-name:3000`

#### Option 3: VPN Access
- Deploy behind a corporate VPN or WireGuard
- Ensure the VPN is properly configured and secured

### Never Do This
- ❌ Don't expose to the public internet
- ❌ Don't run with root/sudo privileges
- ❌ Don't use on shared/multi-user systems without proper isolation

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"tmux: command not found"**
   - Install tmux: `sudo apt install tmux` (Ubuntu/Debian) or `brew install tmux` (macOS)

2. **"Permission denied" errors**
   - Ensure the user running the server has write permissions to the workspace directory
   - Check that the shell specified in `.env` is executable

3. **WebSocket connection failures**
   - Check that the PORT specified in `.env` is not already in use
   - Ensure your firewall allows WebSocket connections

4. **Sessions not persisting**
   - Verify tmux is installed and running
   - Check that `multipass-sessions.json` is writable

### Getting Help

- Check existing issues: https://github.com/SvetimFM/multipass-ai-terminal/issues
- Join discussions: https://github.com/SvetimFM/multipass-ai-terminal/discussions

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork
3. Install dependencies: `npm install`
4. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`
5. Make your changes
6. Run in dev mode: `npm run dev`
7. Submit a pull request

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [xterm.js](https://github.com/xtermjs/xterm.js) for terminal emulation
- Uses [node-pty](https://github.com/microsoft/node-pty) for pseudo-terminal support
- Inspired by the need for better AI-assisted development workflows

## License

MIT - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details

Commit message:

feat: Make AI button commands fully editable in settings UI
- AI start button command can now be customized (overrides LLM_CONFIG)
- AI exit button exitSequence can now be customized (overrides LLM_CONFIG)
- Terminal functions check button config first, then fall back to LLM_CONFIG
- Updated README to document AI button command customization
- Removed read-only restriction from command field for AI buttons

README.md, after:

# Multipass - Terminal for AI

⚠️ **SECURITY WARNING**: This application has **NO AUTHENTICATION** and provides **FULL TERMINAL ACCESS** to your system. Only run this locally or behind a secure VPN/Tailscale connection. **NEVER** expose this to the public internet.

A flexible terminal-based interface for working with any command-line AI assistant (Claude, OpenAI CLI, or custom LLMs). Multipass provides isolated workspaces called "AI Offices" with multiple "cubicles" for experimenting with AI-assisted development.

## Features

- **LLM Agnostic**: Works with any terminal-based AI assistant
- **AI Office**: Create isolated workspaces with multiple cubicles for each project
- **Project Management**: Organize different projects with their own terminal sessions
- **Remote Sessions**: Access your AI sessions from anywhere via web browser
- **Session Persistence**: Terminal sessions persist across connections
- **Quick Commands**: Customizable buttons for common commands
- **Multi-Terminal View**: Work with multiple AI sessions simultaneously

## Configuration

### Configuring Your AI Assistant

Edit `src/utils/constants.js` and find the `LLM_CONFIG` section to configure your AI assistant:

```javascript
LLM_CONFIG: {
  default: 'custom',  // Change this to match your AI assistant key below
  llms: {
    custom: {
      name: 'Your AI Assistant',     // Display name in the UI
      command: 'your-ai-command',    // Terminal command to launch your AI
      sessionPrefix: 'ai-',          // Prefix for session names
      exitSequence: '\x03',          // Key sequence to exit (e.g., '\x03' = Ctrl+C)
      exitDelay: 50                  // Delay in ms after sending exit sequence
    },
    // Example configurations included:
    // - claude: Uses 'claude' command, requires Ctrl+C twice to exit
    // - openai: Uses 'openai' command
    // - ollama: Uses 'ollama run llama2' command
  }
}
```

#### Adding Your Own AI Assistant

1. Add a new entry in the `llms` object
2. Set `command` to whatever terminal command launches your AI
3. Set `exitSequence` based on how your AI exits:
   - `'\x03'` = Ctrl+C (most common)
   - `'\x03\x03'` = Ctrl+C twice (for Claude)
   - `'\x04'` = Ctrl+D
   - `'exit\n'` = types "exit" and Enter
4. Change `default` to your AI's key name

### Customizing AI Assistant & Quick Command Buttons

The buttons that appear in the terminal interface are fully customizable. You can edit them in two ways:

1. **Through the UI**: Click the settings icon (⚙️) and look for "AI Assistant & Quick Command Buttons"
2. **Edit the config file**: Edit `config/buttons.config.js` to customize buttons directly

```javascript
module.exports = {
  // AI Assistant buttons
  ai: {
    start: {
      label: 'AI Assistant',        // Button text
      mobileLabel: '🤖 AI',        // Mobile button text
      command: 'claude',            // Command to launch AI (optional, defaults to LLM_CONFIG)
      className: 'bg-blue-600',     // Tailwind CSS classes
      title: 'Start AI Assistant'   // Tooltip
    },
    exit: {
      label: 'Exit AI',
      mobileLabel: '🛑 Exit',
      exitSequence: '\\x03\\x03',    // Exit sequence (optional, defaults to LLM_CONFIG)
      className: 'bg-red-600',
      title: 'Exit AI Assistant'
    }
  },
  
  // Quick command buttons
  quickCommands: [
    {
      label: 'git status',
      command: 'git status\n',      // Command to send to terminal
      className: 'bg-gray-600',
      title: 'Show git status'
    },
    // Add your own commands here...
  ]
}
```

#### Button Configuration Options

**For AI buttons:**
- **label**: Text displayed on the button
- **command** (start button): Override the AI command (optional, defaults to LLM_CONFIG)
- **exitSequence** (exit button): Override the exit sequence (optional, defaults to LLM_CONFIG)
- **className**: Tailwind CSS classes for styling
- **title**: Tooltip text shown on hover
- **mobileLabel**: Alternative text for mobile view (optional)

**For Quick Command buttons:**
- **label**: Text displayed on the button
- **command**: The exact command sent to the terminal (include `\n` for Enter)
- **className**: Tailwind CSS classes for styling
- **title**: Tooltip text shown on hover
- **mobileLabel**: Alternative text for mobile view (optional)

## Prerequisites

- Node.js (v16 or higher)
- npm or yarn
- tmux (required for session persistence)
- git (required for AI Office functionality)
- Unix-like operating system (Linux, macOS, WSL on Windows)

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/SvetimFM/multipass-ai-terminal.git
   cd multipass-ai-terminal
   ```

2. Install dependencies:
   ```bash
   npm install
   ```

3. Copy the environment example and configure:
   ```bash
   cp env.example .env
   ```

4. Edit `.env` to set your preferences:
   ```bash
   PORT=3000                    # Server port
   HOST=127.0.0.1              # Use 127.0.0.1 for local only
   SHELL=/bin/bash             # Your preferred shell
   DEFAULT_WORKSPACE=$HOME/projects  # Where to store projects
   ```

5. Start the server:
   ```bash
   npm start     # Production mode
   # or
   npm run dev   # Development mode with hot reload
   ```

6. Open http://localhost:3000 in your browser

## Usage

### Projects
- Click "Add Project Folder" to add a new project
- Each project can have its own AI Office with multiple cubicles

### AI Office
- Create isolated workspaces for AI experimentation
- Each cubicle is an independent copy of your project
- Changes in cubicles don't affect the main project
- Sync cubicles with parent project when needed

### Sessions
- Create new terminal sessions for any project
- Sessions persist even if you close the browser
- Access sessions from multiple devices

## Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the root directory with these variables:

```bash
# Server Configuration
PORT=3000                    # Port to run the server on
HOST=127.0.0.1              # Host to bind to (127.0.0.1 for local only)
SHELL=/bin/bash             # Shell to use for terminal sessions

# Workspace Configuration
DEFAULT_WORKSPACE=$HOME/projects  # Default directory for new projects

# Optional: AI Assistant Configuration
DEFAULT_LLM=claude          # Default LLM to use (claude, openai, etc.)

# Session Configuration (optional)
SESSION_TIMEOUT=86400       # Session timeout in seconds (default: 24 hours)
MAX_SESSIONS=50            # Maximum concurrent sessions
```

## Security Considerations

### ⚠️ Critical Security Information

1. **No Authentication**: This application provides unrestricted terminal access to anyone who can reach the web interface
2. **Full System Access**: Users have the same permissions as the process running the server
3. **Session Persistence**: Terminal sessions remain active even after disconnection

### Recommended Deployment Options

#### Option 1: Local Only (Recommended)
```bash
# In your .env file
HOST=127.0.0.1  # Only accessible from localhost
PORT=3000
```

#### Option 2: Tailscale (Secure Remote Access)
1. Install Tailscale: https://tailscale.com/download
2. Set up your Tailscale network
3. Configure Multipass to listen on your Tailscale IP:
   ```bash
   # In your .env file
   HOST=0.0.0.0  # Listen on all interfaces
   PORT=3000
   ```
4. Access via your Tailscale network: `http://your-machine-name:3000`

#### Option 3: VPN Access
- Deploy behind a corporate VPN or WireGuard
- Ensure the VPN is properly configured and secured

### Never Do This
- ❌ Don't expose to the public internet
- ❌ Don't run with root/sudo privileges
- ❌ Don't use on shared/multi-user systems without proper isolation

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"tmux: command not found"**
   - Install tmux: `sudo apt install tmux` (Ubuntu/Debian) or `brew install tmux` (macOS)

2. **"Permission denied" errors**
   - Ensure the user running the server has write permissions to the workspace directory
   - Check that the shell specified in `.env` is executable

3. **WebSocket connection failures**
   - Check that the PORT specified in `.env` is not already in use
   - Ensure your firewall allows WebSocket connections

4. **Sessions not persisting**
   - Verify tmux is installed and running
   - Check that `multipass-sessions.json` is writable

### Getting Help

- Check existing issues: https://github.com/SvetimFM/multipass-ai-terminal/issues
- Join discussions: https://github.com/SvetimFM/multipass-ai-terminal/discussions

## Contributing

We welcome contributions! Please see our [Contributing Guidelines](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

### Development Setup

1. Fork the repository
2. Clone your fork
3. Install dependencies: `npm install`
4. Create a feature branch: `git checkout -b feature/your-feature`
5. Make your changes
6. Run in dev mode: `npm run dev`
7. Submit a pull request

## Acknowledgments

- Built with [xterm.js](https://github.com/xtermjs/xterm.js) for terminal emulation
- Uses [node-pty](https://github.com/microsoft/node-pty) for pseudo-terminal support
- Inspired by the need for better AI-assisted development workflows

## License

MIT - See [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details
